We said earlier that we had a lot
of new exciting concepts coming up.
Well, I'm not going to
string you along anymore.
We're going to tie up our lessons on
strings with a bunch of fun methods for
transforming our string text.
I know, I know,
my jokes are pretty terrible, so
let's get back to the good stuff.
So far, we've seen ways you can access
portions of strings using the indexing
technique, create new strings by slicing
and concatenating, find characters and
strings using the index method, and
even test if one string contains another.
On top of all this
string processing power,
the string class provides a bunch of
other methods for working with text.
Now, we'll show you how to
use some of these methods.
Remember, the goal is not for
you to memorize all of this.
Instead, we want to give you an idea of
what you can do with strings in Python.
Some string methods let you
perform transformations or
formatting on the string text,
like upper, and its opposite, lower.
These methods are really useful
when you're handling user input.
Let's say you wanted to check if
the user answered yes to a question.
How would you know if the user
typed it using upper or lower case?
You don't need to, you just transform
the answer to the case you want.
Like this example.
Another useful method when dealing
with user input is the strip method.
This method will get rid of
surrounding spaces in the string.
If we ask the user for an answer,
we usually don't care about
any surrounding spaces.
So it's a good idea to use the strip
method to get rid of any white space.
This means that strip doesn't just
remove spaces, it also removes tabs and
new line characters,
which are all characters we don't
usually want in user-provided strings.
There are two more versions of
this method, lstrip rstrip,
to get rid of the whitespace
characters just to the left or
to the right of the string
instead of both sides.
Other methods give you information
about the string itself.
The method count returns how many times
a given substring appears within a string.
The method endswith returns whether
the string ends with a certain substring.
The method isnumeric returns whether
the string's made up of just numbers.
Adding to that,
if we have a string that is numeric,
we can use the int function to
convert it to an actual number.
In earlier videos, we showed that we can
concatenate strings using the plus sign.
The join method can also be used for
concatenating.
To use the join method, we have to call it
on the string that'll be used for joining.
In this case,
we're using a string with a space in it.
The method receives a list of strings and
returns one string with each of
the strings joined by the initial string.
Let's check out another example.
Finally, we can also split
a string into a list of strings.
The split method returns a list of all
the words in the initial string and
it automatically splits by any whitespace.
It can optionally take a parameter and
split the strings by another character,
like a comma or a dot.
Are you starting to see how these string
methods could be useful in your IT job?
Okay, so
we've just learned a bunch of new methods.
But there are tons more that
you can use on strings.
We've included a list with
the ones we talked about, and
some new ones in the next cheat sheet.
You'll also find a link to the full
Python documentation there,
which gives you all the info
on each available method.
As we've said before, don't worry
about trying to memorize everything.
You'll pick these concepts
up with practice, and
the documentation is always
there if you need it.
All right,
last up in our string of string videos,
we're going to check out
how to format strings.